.TH oyranos-monitor-white-point 1 "January 17, 2018" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-monitor-white-point \- Oyranos CMS monitor white point configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR --daemon|-d=0|1|2 [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -w 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8 [--system-wide] [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -s 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8 [--system-wide] [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -n 1|2|3 [--system-wide] [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -l [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR --longitude ANGLE_IN_DEGREE [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR --latitude ANGLE_IN_DEGREE [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -r [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -t ANGLE_IN_DEGREE [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR -a KELVIN [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR --night-effect ICC_PROFILE [--system-wide] [-v]
.fi
\fBoyranos-monitor-white-point\fR --sunlight-effect ICC_PROFILE [--system-wide] [-v]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The oyranos-monitor-white-point programm let you set a white point and can run as location specific daemon for nightly blue color reduction. Settings are stored in a data base, the OpenICC DB.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d=1, \-\-daemon
Autostart daemon.
.sp
.br
.TP
.B \fB\-d\fR \fIDAEMON_MODE\fR , \-d\fR=\fIDAEMON_MODE\fR
Run sunrise-sunset daemon to update white point depending on geo position, twilight and local time.
.sp
.br
\fB-d=0\fR stop daemon
.br
\fB-d=1\fR autostart daemon
.br
\fB-d=2\fR setup and start daemon
.TP
.B \fB\-m\fR
Show white point modes including the current setting.
.TP
.B \fB\-w\fR 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8
Set actual white point mode. It may interfere with daemon settings.
.sp
.br
\fB-w 0\fR no white point adjustments (old behaviour)
.br
\fB-w 1\fR automatic
.br
\fB-w 2\fR D50
.br
\fB-w 3\fR D55
.br
\fB-w 4\fR D65
.br
\fB-w 5\fR D75
.br
\fB-w 6\fR D93
.br
\fB-w 7\fR first monitors actual media white point as target for all other monitors
.br
\fB-w 8\fR second monitors actual media white point as target for all other monitor
.TP
.B \fB\-s\fR 0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8
Set preferred day light white point
.sp
.br
\fB-s x\fR see the -w option
.TP
.B \fB\-n\fR 1|2|3
Set preferred night light white point
.sp
.br
\fB-n 1\fR automatic
.br
\fB-n 2\fR D50
.br
\fB-n 3\fR D55
.TP
.B \fB\-a\fR KELVIN
Set white point for automatic -w or -n 1 options in Kelvin. The allowed range is 1000 - 10.000 Kelvin. Artefacts appear already outside 2800-8000 Kelvin range.
.TP
.B \fB\--night-effect\fR ICC_PROFILE
Set preferred nightly effect with a ICC profile of class abstract. Ideally the effect profile works on 1D RGB curves only and is marked meta:EFFECT_linear=yes .
.TP
.B \fB\--sunlight-effect\fR ICC_PROFILE
Set preferred daylight effect with a ICC profile of class abstract. Ideally the effect profile works on 1D RGB curves only and is marked meta:EFFECT_linear=yes .
.TP
.B \fB\-l\fR
Set geo location. Obtain from IP address.
.TP
.B \fB\--latitude\fR \fIANGLE_IN_DEGREE\fR
Set manually geo location.
.TP
.B \fB\--longitude\fR \fIANGLE_IN_DEGREE\fR
Set manually geo location.
.TP
.B \fB\-r\fR
Show sun rise.
.TP
.B \fB\-t\fR \fIANGLE_IN_DEGREE\fR
Set twilight angle.
.sp
.br
\fB-t 0\fR rise/set
.br
\fB-t -6\fR civil
.br
\fB-t -12\fR nautical
.br
\fB-t -18\fR astronomical
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \fB\-h\fR
Show help text.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose\fR
Increase verbosity
.br
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run\fR
Dont set anything permanently
.br
.TP
.B \-\-system-wide\fR
Store Setting system wide.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OY_DEBUG
set the Oyranos debug level. Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.TP
.B OY_MODULE_PATH
route Oyranos to additional directories containing modules.
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2017-2018, Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.fi
License: new BSD <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyranos-monitor(1) oyranos-config-fltk(1) oyranos(3)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "BUGS"
at: https://github.com/oyranos-cms/oyranos/issues
