.TH "oyranos" 3 "December 09, 2009" oyranos
.SH NAME
oyranos \- Oyranos color management system (CMS)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
Include the appropriate headers:
.B #include <oyranos.h>
.TP
and compile:
.B cc `oyranos-config --cflags` `oyranos-config --ldflags` mycode.c -o myApp
.sp
A pkg-config file is provided as well.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I "Oyranos color management system"
(CMS) is designed as a entry point for color savy applications. In its current stage it configures profile paths, sets default profiles, maps devices to profiles, sets a monitor profile in X and uploads a vcgt tag. This means for instance all applications using Oyranos will use for incoming digital camera picture the same profile and watch it through the same monitor profile.
.sp
For the 
.I "future"
is planed to offer color conversions through a framework inside Oyranos. Installation and selection of CMM's will then happen transparently. Device profiles will be better supported. Options are planed for HDR imagery handling.
.SH API DESCRIPTION
A html documentation should come with your installation. Try otherwise
.sp
http://www.oyranos.org/doc/index.html
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
OY_MODULE_PATH
.br
route Oyranos to additional directories containing modules.
.TP
OY_DEBUG
.br
set the Oyranos debug level.
.br
influences the internal oy_debug integer variable. Its value changes the output level. See as well oyranos_debug.[h,c] . The configure switch –enable-debug enables most of the available output.
.nr
Valid integer range is from 1-20.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_MEMORY
.br
sets the internal ::oy_debug_memory integer variable on and helps somewhat in detecting memory leaks. This variable is dangerous and should not to be run for production use.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_DB_MODULE
.br
can explicitely specify a module registration string for testing.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS
.br
is used to frequently print infos about objects on stderr. The value of OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS can be a
.br
  Object ID or a
.br
  type name like "oyImage_s","Image" to track all oyImage_s type objects or
.br
  "1" to print track informations about all trackable objects.
.br
  "-1" to omit printing track informations.
.br
  "-3" animate the history of object releases.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS_PRINT_TREE
.br
together with OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS for DAG printing
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS_SKIP_CMM_CACHES
.br
together with OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS for a cleaner graph
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS_SHOW_NEW
.br
together with OY_DEBUG_OBJECTS for a list of newly allocated objects from a scope - currently CMMapi7 modules
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OPTION
.br
Allows to trace option switching.
.br
  Syntax: "name_fragment:value_fragment"
.br
  The option is printed in case of a match or no fragment is delivered.
.br
  The double point ':' is optional.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_OPTION_BACKTRACE
.br
Integrates backtrace information into OY_DEBUG_OPTION initiated output.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_SIGNALS
.br
sets the internal ::oy_debug_signals integer variable on and helps in tracing signals. This variable is dangerous and should not to be run for production use.
.TP
OY_DEBUG_WRITE
.br
together with OY_DEBUG is used to tell, that a file output is appreciated. Writing files will usually slow down debugging.
.TP
OY_BACKTRACE 
.br
can be set to a debug message string and will then place a backtrace text from gdb into the console. That needs the debug message to be visible. 
.TP
OY_DEBUG_THREADS
.br
can be set to a integer like OY_DEBUG in order to print thread handling; related OpenMP variable OMP_NUM_THREADS – Specifies the number of threads to use
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyranos-config(3) oyranos-policy(1) oyranos-monitor(1)
.SH BUGS
at: https://gitlab.com/oyranos/oyranos/issues
