.TH oyranos-profiles 1 "January 08, 2012" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-profiles \- Oyranos CMS ICC profiles tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR -l [-f] [-e] [-acdknot]
.fi
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR -p [-usym]
.fi
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR --install [-u|-s|-y|-m] \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR [ |-h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The oyranos-profiles programm let you query and install profile(s) for OpenICC compliant applications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
list installed profiles.
.sp
.br
\fB-f\fR show full filename including path.
.sp
.br
\fB-e\fR show internal name. The text string comes from the 'desc' tag.
.sp
Following options are filters and can be added to each other.
.br
\fB-a\fR show profiles of the \fBabstract\fR class
.br
\fB-c\fR show profiles of the \fBcolor space\fR class
.br
\fB-d\fR show profiles of the \fBdisplay\fR class
.br
\fB-k\fR show profiles of the \fBdevice link\fR class
.br
\fB-n\fR show profiles of the \fBnamed color 2\fR class
.br
\fB-o\fR show profiles of the \fBoutput device\fR class
.br
\fB-i\fR show profiles of the \fBinput device\fR class
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
show search paths according to the OS color management system and to the actual OpenICC profile search paths.
.sp
.br
\fB-u\fR user path
.sp
.br
\fB-s\fR Linux system path
.sp
.br
\fB-y\fR Oyranos path
.sp
.br
\fB-m\fR machine specific path
.TP
\fB\-\-install\fR
install a ICC profile into one of the following OpenICC paths.
.sp
One of the following options is a required arument to the \fB--install\fR option.
.br
\fB-u\fR user path
.sp
.br
\fB-s\fR Linux system path
.sp
.br
\fB-y\fR Oyranos path
.sp
.br
\fB-m\fR machine specific path
.sp
The following options must be specified before the \fB--install\fR option.
.br
\fB\-\-gui\fR use a graphical X user interface for error messages
.sp
.br
\fB\-\-taxi\fR \fITAXI_ID\fR Taxi profile ID to download
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OY_DEBUG
set the Oyranos debug level. Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for
ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended.
.nf
http://www.oyranos.com/wiki/index.php?title=OpenIccDirectoryProposal
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all installed profiles by internal name:
.B oyranos-profiles -le
.PP
.TP
List all installed profiles of the display and output device classes:
.B oyranos-profiles -l -od
.PP
.TP
List all installed profiles in user path:
.B oyranos-profiles -lf | grep `oyranos-profiles -pu`
.PP
.TP
Install a profile for the actual user and show error messages in a GUI:
.B oyranos-profiles --gui --install -u profilename
.PP
.TP
Install a profile for the actual user and show error messages in a GUI:
.B oyranos-profiles --taxi=taxi_id/0 --gui --install -u
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2010-2012, Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.fi
License: new BSD <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyranos-config-fltk(1) oyranos-config(1) oyranos(3)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "BUGS"
at: http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=177017&atid=879553
