.TH oyranos-profile-graph 1 "March 03, 2013" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-profile-graph \- ICC profile graph tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR [-o \fIFILENAME\fR] [-x [-c]] [-w NUMBER] [-b] [-s] \fIPROFILENAMES\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR [ -h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The oyranos-profile-graph programm converts ICC profiles or embedded 
ICC profiles from images to a graph image. By default the program shows the 
saturation line of the specified profiles and writes to output.png .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fIPROFILENAMES\fR
2D Graph from profiles
.sp
.br
\fB\-x\fR
use CIE*xyY *x*y plane for saturation line projection.
.sp
.br
\fB\-c\fR
\twith -x omit white line of lambert light emitters in CIE*xyY *x*y plane
.sp
.br
\fB-s\fR
omit the spectral line.
.sp
\fB-d\fR \fIFLOATINGPOINTNUMBER\fR
incrementally increase the thickness of the graph lines. The default is 0.7 .
.TP
.B \-\-standard-observer
show the standard observer 1931 2° color matching function (CMF) as curves.
.sp
.br
\fB--no-color\fR
draw in gray
.TP
.B \-\-standard-observer-64
show the standard observer 1964 2° color matching function (CMF) as curves.
.sp
.br
\fB--no-color\fR
draw in gray
.TP
.B \-\-kelvin \fINUMBER\fR
show the blackbody radiator spectrum as curves.
.sp
.br
\fB--no-color\fR
draw in gray
.TP
.B \-\-illuminant \fINAME\fR
show illuminant spectrum as curves.
.sp
.br
\fB--illuminant A\fR
show the CIE A spectral power distribution (SPD)
.sp
.br
\fB--illuminant D65\fR
show the CIE D65 spectral power distribution, ~ 6500 Kelvin daylight
.sp
.br
\fB--no-color\fR
draw in gray
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.TP
\fB-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR
set output image width in pixel
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
write resulting image to file name.
.TP
.B \-b
omit border.
.TP
\fB-t\fR \fIFLOATINGPOINTNUMBER\fR
increase the thickness of the graph lines
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
print a help text
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OY_DEBUG
set the Oyranos debug level. Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for
ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended.
.nf
http://www.oyranos.com/wiki/index.php?title=OpenIccDirectoryProposal
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show the saturation lines of two profile in CIE*ab 256 pixel width, without spectral line and with thicker lines:
.B oyranos-profile-graph -w 256 -s -t 3 sRGB.icc ProPhoto-RGB.icc
.PP
.TP
Show the standard observer spectral function as curves:
.B oyranos-profile-graph --standard-observer -o CIE-StdObserver.png
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2012-2013 Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.fi
License: BSD-3-Clause <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyranos(3) oyranos-profile(1)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "BUGS"
at: https://github.com/oyranos-cms/oyranos/issues
