.TH oyranos-profile 1 "November 25, 2014" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-profile \- Oyranos CMS ICC profile tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-profile\fR \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR -l \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR -r \fINUMBER\fR \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR -m [-w \fIFILENAME\fR] \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR --ppmcie \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR -o \fIFILENAME\fR [-c CLASS] [-f xml]
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR -w \fINAME\fR [-j \fIFILENAME\fR | -m] \fIPROFILENAME\fR
.fi
\fBoyranos-profile\fR [ |-h ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The oyranos-profile programm shows informations about a ICC profile and allows some modifications.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-l
list contained tags additional to overview and header.
.sp
.br
\fB-p\fR \fINUMBER\fR select tag
.br
\fB-n\fR \fINAME\fR select tag
.sp
.TP
.B \-r \fINUMBER\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
remove selected tag number.
.sp
.TP
.B \-m
show internal hash value.
.sp
.br
\fB-w\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
write profile with correct hash
.sp
.TP
.B \--ppmcie
show CIE*xy chromaticities, if available, for use with ppmcie.
.sp
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
write device informations to OpenICC JSON.
.sp
.br
\fB-c\fR \fINAME\fR use device class. Useful device classes are monitor, scanner, printer, camera.
.sp
.br
\fB-f\fR \fBxml\fR use IccXML format
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fINAME\fR \fIPROFILENAME\fR
write ICC profile. The -w option specifies the new internal and external 
profile name. PROFILENAME specifies the source profile.
.sp
.br
\fB-j\fR \fIFILENAME\fR
embed OpenICC JSON device from file
.br
\fB-s\fR \fINAME\fR add prefix
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \PROFILENAME
can be file name, internal description string, ICC profile ID or 
wildcard "rgb", "cmyk", "gray", "lab", "xyz", "web", "rgbi", "cmyki", "grayi", "labi", "xyzi".
Wildcards ending with "i" are assumed profiles. "web" is a sRGB profile. The other wildcards
are editing profiles.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
increase verbosity
.TP
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
print a help text
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OY_DEBUG
set the Oyranos debug level. Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.TP
.B XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for
ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended.
.nf
http://www.oyranos.com/wiki/index.php?title=OpenIccDirectoryProposal
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show overview and header of profile:
.B oyranos-profile sRGB.icc
.PP
.TP
Show first tags content of profile:
.B oyranos-profile -lv -p=1 sRGB.icc
.PP
.TP
Show the profile hash sum:
.B oyranos-profile -m sRGB.icc
.TP
Show the RGB primaries of a matrix profile inside a CIE*xy diagram:
.B ppmcie `oyranos-profile --ppmcie sRGB.icc` > sRGB_cie-xy.ppm
.TP
Add calibration data to meta tag of a device profile:
.B oyranos-profile -w my_profile -j my_device.json my_profile.icc
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2011-2014, Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.fi
License: new BSD <http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyranos-config-fltk(1) oyranos-config(1) oyranos(3) oyranos-profiles(1) ppmcie(1)
.fi
http://www.oyranos.org
.SH "BUGS"
at: http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=177017&atid=879553
