.TH "oyranos-monitor" 1 "February 22, 2018" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-monitor v0.9.7 \- Monitor configuration with Oyranos CMS
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR | \fB\-s\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-system-wide\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-e\fR \fB\-u\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-system-wide\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-l\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-short\fR] [\fB\-\-path\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\-module\fR \fIMODULENAME\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-f\fR \fIedid|icc|edid_icc|vcgt...\fR \fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-modules\fR \fB\-L\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fIOUT_FILENAME|default:stdout\fR] [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-display\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-\-daemon\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-\-add-edid\fR \fIFILENAME\fR \fB\-\-add-vcgt\fR \fIFILENAME\fR \fB\-\-profile\fR \fIICC_FILE_NAME\fR [\fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR \fB\-R\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR \fB\-V\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The oyranos-monitor programm let you query and set the monitor profile(s) within the Oyranos color management system (CMS). Profiles are stored in a data base, the Oyranos DB.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
Set basic parameters
.br
\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR	select the screen at the x position. The Oyranos screens are if possible real devices. A screen position must be unique and not shared by different screens, otherwise it will be ambiguous.
.br
\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR	select the screen at the y position.
.br
\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-device-pos\fR \fINUMBER\fR	position in device list. The numbering of monitors starts with zero for the first device. To get the number of all available devices use "oyranos-monitor -l | wc -l".
.br
\fB\-\-display\fR \fINAME\fR	Use DISPLAY
.br
\fB\-\-module\fR \fIMODULENAME\fR	select module
.br
\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-x-color-region-target\fR	show the X Color Management (XCM) device profile
.br
\fB\-\-system-wide\fR	do system wide, might need admin or root privileges
.br
\fB\-2\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-2\fR	Select ICC v2 Profiles
.br
\fB\-4\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-4\fR	Select ICC v4 Profiles
.br
.SS
Activate Profiles
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR | \fB\-s\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
Set up the X11 server with the Oyranos DB stored monitor ICC profile(s).
.br
.sp
.br
|	No args
.RS
Run command without arguments
.RE
\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-setup\fR	Setup a ICC profile for all or a selected monitor
.br
.SS
Set New Profile
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-system-wide\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] ICC_FILE_NAME
.br
Assign a monitor ICC profile to the selected screen and store in the Oyranos DB.
.br
.sp
.br
\fIICC_FILE_NAME\fR	ICC device profile for a monitor
.br
.SS
Erase Profile
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-e\fR \fB\-u\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-system-wide\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-e\fR|\fB\-\-erase\fR	Release a ICC profile from a monitor device
.RS
Reset the hardware gamma table to the defaults and erase from the Oyranos DB
.RE
\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-\-unset\fR	Release a ICC profile from a monitor device
.RS
Reset the hardware gamma table to the defaults.
.RE
.SS
List Devices
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-l\fR [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-short\fR] [\fB\-\-path\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\-module\fR \fIMODULENAME\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR]
.br
List names and show details.
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-list\fR	list devices
.br
\fB\-\-short\fR	show only the ICC profiles file name
.br
\fB\-\-path\fR	show the full ICC profile path and file name
.br
.SS
Give Informations
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-f\fR \fIedid|icc|edid_icc|vcgt...\fR \fB\-a\fR \fB\-\-modules\fR \fB\-L\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fIOUT_FILENAME|default:stdout\fR] [\fB\-x\fR \fIPIXEL\fR] [\fB\-y\fR \fIPIXEL\fR|\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-\-display\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR]
.br
\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-format\fR \fIedid|icc|edid_icc|vcgt...\fR	[edid|icc|edid_icc|vcgt] Get data
.RS
Select a data format. Possible are edid for server side EDID data, icc for a server side ICC profile, edid_icc for a ICC profile created  from  server side  EDID and vcgt for effect and monitor white point merged into a possibly altered VCGT tag. Without the -o/--ouput option the output is written to stdout.
.RE
\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR \fIOUT_FILENAME|default:stdout\fR	OUT_FILENAME Write data selected by -f/--format to the given filename.
.br
\fB\-m\fR|\fB\-\-device-meta-tag\fR	(--device-meta-tag) switch is accepted by the -f=icc and -f=edid_icc option. It embeddes device and driver informations about the actual device for
.RS
later easier ICC profile to device assignment.  This becomes useful for sharing ICC profiles.
.RE
\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-xcm-active\fR	
.RS
Show if X Color Management is active
.RE
\fB\-\-modules\fR	
.RS
List monitor modules
.RE
\fB\-L\fR|\fB\-\-list-taxi\fR	List Taxi Profiles
.br
.SS
Run Daemon
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-\-daemon\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
Keep a session up to date.
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-\-daemon\fR	
.RS
Run as daemon to observe monitor hotplug events and update the setup.
.RE
.SS
Add Device Meta Data
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-\-add-edid\fR \fIFILENAME\fR \fB\-\-add-vcgt\fR \fIFILENAME\fR \fB\-\-profile\fR \fIICC_FILE_NAME\fR [\fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
Add device information to a profile for automated selection.
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-\-add-edid\fR \fIFILENAME\fR	EDID Filename
.RS
Embedd EDID keys to a ICC profile as meta tag. Requires --profile.
.RE
\fB\-\-add-vcgt\fR \fIFILENAME\fR	VCGT Filename
.RS
Embedd VCGT calibration to a ICC profile as vcgt tag. FILENAME can be output from 'xcalib -p'. Requires --profile.
.RE
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fIICC_FILE_NAME\fR	ICC profile.
.br
\fB\-\-name\fR \fINAME\fR	String for ICC profile internal name.
.br
.SS
General Options
\fBoyranos-monitor\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR \fB\-R\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR \fB\-V\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR	Print help text
.RS
Show usage information and hints for the tool.
.RE
	\fB\-h\fR -		# Full Help : Print help for all groups
.br
	\fB\-h\fR synopsis		# Synopsis : List groups - Show all groups including syntax
.br
\fB\-X\fR|\fB\-\-export\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR	Export formated text
.RS
Get UI converted into text formats
.RE
	\fB\-X\fR man		# Man : Unix Man page - Get a unix man page
.br
	\fB\-X\fR markdown		# Markdown : Formated text - Get formated text
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json		# Json : GUI - Get a Oyjl Json UI declaration
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json+command		# Json + Command : GUI + Command - Get Oyjl Json UI declaration incuding command
.br
	\fB\-X\fR export		# Export : All available data - Get UI data for developers. The format can be converted by the oyjl-args tool.
.br
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR	Version
.br
\fB\-R\fR|\fB\-\-render\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR	Render
.br
	\fB\-R\fR gui		# Gui : Show UI - Display a interactive graphical User Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR cli		# Cli : Show UI - Print on Command Line Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR web		# Web : Start Web Server - Start a local Web Service to connect a Webbrowser with. Use the -R=web:help sub option to see more information.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR -
.br
\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR	increase verbosity
.br
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
DISPLAY
.br
On X11 systems the display is selected by this variable.
.TP
OY_DEBUG
.br
set the Oyranos debug level. Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.TP
XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
.br
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended.
.br
http://www.oyranos.com/wiki/index.php?title=OpenIccDirectoryProposal
.TP
OY_MODULE_PATH
.br
route Oyranos to additional directories containing modules.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Put the following in a setup script like .xinitrc
.br
# select a monitor profile, load the binary blob into X and
.br
# fill the VideoCardGammaTable, if appropriate
.br
oyranos-monitor
.TP
Assign a ICC profile to a screen
.br
oyranos-monitor -x pos -y pos profilename
.TP
Reset a screens hardware LUT in order to do a calibration
.br
oyranos-monitor -e -x pos -y pos profilename
.TP
Query the server side, network transparent profile
.br
oyranos-monitor -x pos -y pos
.TP
List all Oyranos monitor devices
.br
oyranos-monitor -l
.TP
Show the first Oyranos monitor device verbosely
.br
oyranos-monitor -l -v -d 0
.TP
Pass the monitor profile to a external tool
.br
iccDumpProfile -v "`oyranos-monitor -l -d 0 -c --path`"
.TP
List all monitor devices through the oyX1 module
.br
oyranos-monitor -l --module oyX1
.TP
Dump data in the format following the -f option
.br
oyranos-monitor -f=[edid|icc|edid_icc] -o=edid.bin -x=pos -y=pos -m
.TP
Embedd device informations into ICC meta tag
.br
oyranos-monitor --add-edid=edid_filename --profile=profilename.icc --name=profilename
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oyranos-config-fltk(1) oyranos-policy(1) oyranos-profiles(1) oyranos(3)
.br
.TP
http://www.oyranos.org
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann http://www.oyranos.org
.SH COPYRIGHT
© 2005-2021 Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.br
License: newBSD http://www.oyranos.org
.SH BUGS
https://www.gitlab.com/oyranos/oyranos/issues 

