.TH "oyranos-profile-graph" 1 "June 2, 2020" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-profile-graph v0.9.7 \- Oyranos Profile Graph
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-x\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] l|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE ...
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-H\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-L\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fIl|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE\fR ...] [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-m\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-S\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-O\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-k\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-u\fR \fISTRING\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-s\fR \fIFILE\fR \fB\-p\fR \fIFORMAT\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-P\fR \fISTRING\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-z\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fB\-I\fR \fIPAGE\fR] [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-\-calib\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-z\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR | \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR | \fB\-V\fR | \fB\-R\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The  oyranos-profile-graph programm converts ICC profiles or embedded ICC profiles from images to a graph image. By default the program shows the saturation line of the specified profiles and writes to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
2D grafy z profilů
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-x\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] l|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE ...
.br
Create a 2D Graph containing the saturation line from a ICC Profile.
.br
.sp
.br
\fIl|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE\fR ...	ICC Profile
.br
\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-change-thickness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify increase of the thickness of the graph lines (NUMBER:0,7 [≥0 ≤2 Δ0,05])
.br
\fB\-x\fR|\fB\-\-xyy\fR	Use CIE*xyY *x*y plane for saturation line projection
.br
\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-no-blackbody\fR	Omit white line of lambert light emitters
.br
\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-no-spectral-line\fR	Omit the spectral line
.br
\fB\-2\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-2\fR	Select ICC v2 Profiles
.br
\fB\-4\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-4\fR	Select ICC v4 Profiles
.br
\fB\-r\fR|\fB\-\-no-repair\fR	No Profile repair of ICC profile ID
.br
.SS
HLC Color Atlas Pages
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-H\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-L\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fIl|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE\fR ...] [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-m\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
Create a 2D Graph containing the possible color patches inside the ICC Profile gamut. More information about HLC Color Atlas can be found on www.freiefarbe.de
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-H\fR|\fB\-\-hue\fR \fINUMBER\fR	HLC Color Atlas (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤365 Δ5])
.RS
Select a page by hue color angle in the HLC Color Atlas. -H=365 will output all hues.
.RE
\fB\-L\fR|\fB\-\-lightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	HLC Color Atlas (NUMBER:-5 [≥-5 ≤100 Δ5])
.RS
Select a page by lightness in the HLC Color Atlas.
.RE
\fB\-C\fR|\fB\-\-chroma\fR \fINUMBER\fR	HLC Color Atlas (NUMBER:-5 [≥-5 ≤130 Δ5])
.RS
Select a page by chroma (saturation) in the HLC Color Atlas.
.RE
\fIl|rgb|cmyk|gray|lab|xyz|web|effect|proof|FILE\fR ...	ICC Profile
.br
\fB\-m\fR|\fB\-\-swatch-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR	Specify output file format
.br
	\fB\-m\fR png		# PNG - PNG Raster
.br
	\fB\-m\fR svg		# SVG - SVG Vector
.br
	\fB\-m\fR ncc		# NCC - Named Color Collection
.br
.SS
Standard Observer 1931 2° Graph
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-S\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-S\fR|\fB\-\-standard-observer\fR	CIE Standard Observer 1931 2°
.br
.SS
1964 10° Observer Graph
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-O\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-O\fR|\fB\-\-observer-64\fR	CIE Observer 1964 10°
.br
.SS
Blackbody Radiator Spectrum Graph
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-k\fR \fINUMBER\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-kelvin\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Blackbody Radiator (NUMBER:0 [≥0 ≤25000 Δ100])
.br
.SS
Illuminant Spectrum Graph
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-u\fR \fISTRING\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-\-illuminant\fR \fISTRING\fR	Illuminant Spectrum
.br
	\fB\-u\fR A		# Iluminant A - CIE A spectral power distribution
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D50		# Iluminant D50 - CIE D50 spectral power distribution (computed)
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D55		# Iluminant D55 - CIE D55 spectral power distribution (computed)
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D65		# Iluminant D65 - CIE D65 spectral power distribution (computed)
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D65T		# Illuminant D65 T - CIE D65 spectral power distribution
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D75		# Illuminant D75 - CIE D75 spectral power distribution (computed)
.br
	\fB\-u\fR D93		# Iluminant D93 - CIE D93 spectral power distribution (computed)
.br
.SS
Spectral Input Graph
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-s\fR \fIFILE\fR \fB\-p\fR \fIFORMAT\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-P\fR \fISTRING\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-z\fR]
.br
\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-spectral\fR \fIFILE\fR	Spectral Input
.br
\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-spectral-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR	Specify spectral output file format
.br
	\fB\-p\fR png		# PNG - PNG Raster
.br
	\fB\-p\fR svg		# SVG - SVG Vector
.br
	\fB\-p\fR csv		# CSV - CSV Values
.br
	\fB\-p\fR ncc		# NCC - Named Color Collection
.br
	\fB\-p\fR cgats		# CGATS - CGATS Values
.br
	\fB\-p\fR icc-xml		# Icc XML - ICC Named Color Values
.br
	\fB\-p\fR ppm		# PPM - Spectral PAM Image
.br
\fB\-P\fR|\fB\-\-pattern\fR \fISTRING\fR	Filter of Color Names
.br
\fB\-z\fR|\fB\-\-scale\fR	Scale the height of the spectrum graph
.br
.SS
Render Color Page
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fB\-I\fR \fIPAGE\fR] [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-import\fR \fIFILE\fR	Color Page Input
.RS
Supported is a color page in NCC format, which contains pages layout with referenced rgb values. Those are placed on a sheed. Such pages are created by e.g. oyranos-profile-graph --hlc=NUMBER -f ncc
.RE
\fB\-I\fR|\fB\-\-index\fR \fIPAGE\fR	Page Selection
.RS
Specify a page name as string or page index as number. -1 will list all page names of the imported file.
.RE
.SS
Show Calibration Curves
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-\-calib\fR \fIFILE\fR [\fB\-t\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fINUMBER\fR] [\fB\-T\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fI-|FILE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-z\fR]
.br
\fB\-\-calib\fR \fIFILE\fR	VCGT Calibration Input
.br
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.SS
General options
\fBoyranos-profile-graph\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR | \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR | \fB\-V\fR | \fB\-R\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-thickness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify the thickness of the graph lines (NUMBER:1 [≥0 ≤10 Δ0,05])
.br
\fB\-b\fR|\fB\-\-no-border\fR	Omit border in graph
.br
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-background-lightness\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Background Lightness (NUMBER:-1 [≥-1 ≤100 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-g\fR|\fB\-\-no-color\fR	Draw Gray
.br
\fB\-w\fR|\fB\-\-width\fR \fINUMBER\fR	Specify output image width in pixel (NUMBER:128 [≥64 ≤4096 Δ1])
.br
\fB\-T\fR|\fB\-\-raster\fR	Draw Raster
.br
\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR \fI-|FILE\fR	Specify output file name, default is stdout
.br
\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR	Specify output file format png or svg, default is png
.br
	\fB\-f\fR png		# PNG - PNG Raster
.br
	\fB\-f\fR svg		# SVG - SVG Vector
.br
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR	Print help text
.RS
Show usage information and hints for the tool.
.RE
\fB\-X\fR|\fB\-\-export\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR	Export formated text
.RS
Get UI converted into text formats
.RE
	\fB\-X\fR man		# Man : Unix Man page - Get a unix man page
.br
	\fB\-X\fR markdown		# Markdown : Formated text - Get formated text
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json		# Json : GUI - Get a Oyjl Json UI declaration
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json+command		# Json + Command : GUI + Command - Get Oyjl Json UI declaration incuding command
.br
	\fB\-X\fR export		# Export : All available data - Get UI data for developers. The format can be converted by the oyjl-args tool.
.br
\fB\-R\fR|\fB\-\-render\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR	Select Renderer
.RS
Select and possibly configure Renderer. -R="gui" will just launch a graphical UI. -R="web:port=port_number:https_key=TLS_private_key_filename:https_cert=TLS_CA_certificate_filename:css=layout_filename.css" will launch a local Web Server, which listens on local port.
.RE
	\fB\-R\fR gui		# Gui : Show UI - Display a interactive graphical User Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR cli		# Cli : Show UI - Print on Command Line Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR web		# Web : Start Web Server - Start a local Web Service to connect a Webbrowser with. Use the -R=web:help sub option to see more information.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR -
.br
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR	Version
.br
\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR	upovídaný výstup
.br
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
OY_DEBUG
.br
set the Oyranos debug level.
.br
Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.br
Valid integer range is from 1-20.
.TP
XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
.br
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended. http://www.openicc.org/index.php%3Ftitle=OpenIccDirectoryProposal.html
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Show graph of a ICC profile
.br
oyranos-profile-graph ICC_PROFILE
.TP
Show the saturation lines of two profiles in CIE*ab 256 pixel width, without spectral line and with thicker lines:
.br
oyranos-profile-graph -w 256 -n -t 3 sRGB.icc ProPhoto-RGB.icc
.TP
Show HLC Color Atlas patches
.br
oyranos-profile-graph -H=90 -o HLC_H090.png cmyk web
.br
Color patches are only shown, if they are in gamut of the default CMYK and web profile.
.TP
Show the standard observer spectral function as curves:
.br
oyranos-profile-graph --standard-observer -o CIE-StdObserver.png
.SH SEE AS WELL
.TP
oyranos-profile(1) oyranos-config(1) oyranos-policy(1) oyranos(3)
.br
.TP
http://www.oyranos.org
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann http://www.oyranos.org
.SH COPYRIGHT
© 2005-2021 Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.br
Licence: newBSD http://www.oyranos.org
.SH BUGS
https://www.gitlab.com/oyranos/oyranos/issues 

