.TH "oyranos-profiles" 1 "October 11, 2018" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyranos-profiles v0.9.7 \- Oyranos Profiles
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-l\fR [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-k\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-P\fR \fIPATH_SUB_STRING\fR] [\fB\-T\fR \fIKEY;VALUE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-p\fR [\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-I\fR \fIICC_PROFILE\fR | \fB\-t\fR \fITAXI_ID\fR [\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR | \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR | \fB\-V\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The tool can list installed profiles, search paths and can help install a ICC color profile in a search path.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
List of available ICC color profiles
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-l\fR [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-k\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-i\fR] [\fB\-2\fR] [\fB\-4\fR] [\fB\-P\fR \fIPATH_SUB_STRING\fR] [\fB\-T\fR \fIKEY;VALUE\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-list-profiles\fR	List Profiles
.br
\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-full-names\fR	List profile full names
.RS
Show path name and file name.
.RE
\fB\-e\fR|\fB\-\-internal-names\fR	List profile internal names
.RS
The text string comes from the 'desc' tag.
.RE
\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-abstract\fR	Select Abstract profiles
.br
\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-color-space\fR	Select Color Space profiles
.br
\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-display\fR	Select Monitor profiles
.br
\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-device-link\fR	Select Device Link profiles
.br
\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-named-color\fR	Select Named Color profiles
.br
\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR	Select Output profiles
.br
\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-input\fR	Select Input profiles
.br
\fB\-2\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-2\fR	Select ICC v2 Profiles
.br
\fB\-4\fR|\fB\-\-icc-version-4\fR	Select ICC v4 Profiles
.br
\fB\-P\fR|\fB\-\-path\fR \fIPATH_SUB_STRING\fR	Show profiles containing a string as part of their full name
.br
	\fB\-P\fR basICColor
.br
	\fB\-P\fR colord
.br
	\fB\-P\fR edid
.br
	\fB\-P\fR OpenICC
.br
	\fB\-P\fR oyra
.br
	\fB\-P\fR xorg
.br
\fB\-T\fR|\fB\-\-meta\fR \fIKEY;VALUE\fR	Filter for meta tag key/value pair
.RS
Show profiles containing a certain key/value pair of their meta tag. VALUE can contain '*' to allow for substring matching.
.RE
	\fB\-T\fR EFFECT_class;sepia
.br
\fB\-D\fR|\fB\-\-duplicates\fR	Show identical multiple installed profiles
.br
.SS
List search paths
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-p\fR [\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-list-paths\fR	List ICC Profile Paths
.br
\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-\-user\fR	User path
.br
\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-system\fR	System path
.br
\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-oyranos\fR	Oyranos path
.br
\fB\-m\fR|\fB\-\-machine\fR	Machine path
.br
.SS
Install Profile
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-I\fR \fIICC_PROFILE\fR | \fB\-t\fR \fITAXI_ID\fR [\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-m\fR] [\fB\-g\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-I\fR|\fB\-\-install\fR \fIICC_PROFILE\fR	Install Profile
.br
\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-taxi\fR \fITAXI_ID\fR	ICC Taxi Profile DataBase
.br
\fB\-u\fR|\fB\-\-user\fR	User path
.br
\fB\-s\fR|\fB\-\-system\fR	System path
.br
\fB\-y\fR|\fB\-\-oyranos\fR	Oyranos path
.br
\fB\-m\fR|\fB\-\-machine\fR	Machine path
.br
\fB\-g\fR|\fB\-\-gui\fR	Use Graphical User Interface
.br
\fB\-\-test\fR	No Action
.br
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.SS
General options
\fBoyranos-profiles\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR | \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR | \fB\-V\fR
.br
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR	Print help text
.RS
Show usage information and hints for the tool.
.RE
\fB\-X\fR|\fB\-\-export\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR	Export formated text
.RS
Get UI converted into text formats
.RE
	\fB\-X\fR man		# Man : Unix Man page - Get a unix man page
.br
	\fB\-X\fR markdown		# Markdown : Formated text - Get formated text
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json		# Json : GUI - Get a Oyjl Json UI declaration
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json+command		# Json + Command : GUI + Command - Get Oyjl Json UI declaration incuding command
.br
	\fB\-X\fR export		# Export : All available data - Get UI data for developers
.br
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR	Version
.br
\fB\-R\fR|\fB\-\-render\fR \fIgui|cli|web|...\fR	Select Renderer
.RS
Select and possibly configure Renderer. -R="gui" will just launch a graphical UI. -R="web:port=port_number:https_key=TLS_private_key_filename:https_cert=TLS_CA_certificate_filename:css=layout_filename.css" will launch a local Web Server, which listens on local port.
.RE
	\fB\-R\fR gui		# Gui : Show UI - Display a interactive graphical User Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR cli		# Cli : Show UI - Print on Command Line Interface.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR web		# Web : Start Web Server - Start a local Web Service to connect a Webbrowser with. Supported subargs are: port for port number, https_key and https_cert for passing in encryption filenames, security=readonly|interactive|lazy with "readonly" showing a static page, "interactive" showing GUI elements and "lazy" executing the tool. The "css=layout.css" lets you style your output by CSS.
.br
	\fB\-R\fR -
.br
\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR	upovídaný výstup
.br
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
OY_DEBUG
.br
set the Oyranos debug level.
.br
Alternatively the -v option can be used.
.br
Valid integer range is from 1-20.
.TP
XDG_DATA_HOME XDG_DATA_DIRS
.br
route Oyranos to top directories containing resources. The derived paths for ICC profiles have a "color/icc" appended. http://www.openicc.org/index.php%3Ftitle=OpenIccDirectoryProposal.html
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
List all installed profiles by internal name
.br
oyranos-profiles -le
.TP
List all installed profiles of the display and output device classes
.br
oyranos-profiles -l -od
.TP
List all installed profiles in user path
.br
oyranos-profiles -lfu
.TP
Install a profile for the actual user and show error messages in a GUI
.br
oyranos-profiles --install profilename -u --gui
.TP
Install a profile for the actual user and show error messages in a GUI
.br
oyranos-profiles --install --taxi=taxi_id/0 --gui -d -u
.TP
Show file infos
.br
SAVEIFS=$IFS ; IFS=$'\n\b'; profiles=(`oyranos-profiles -ldf`); IFS=$SAVEIFS; for file in "${profiles[@]}"; do ls "$file"; done
.SH SEE AS WELL
.TP
oyranos-profile-graph(1) oyranos-config(1) oyranos-policy(1) oyranos(3)
.br
.TP
http://www.oyranos.org
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann http://www.oyranos.org
.SH COPYRIGHT
© 2005-2021 Kai-Uwe Behrmann and others
.br
Licence: newBSD http://www.oyranos.org
.SH BUGS
https://www.gitlab.com/oyranos/oyranos/issues 

