.TH "oyjl" 3 "March 29, 2021" oyjl
.SH NAME
Oyjl API \- low level C helper interfaces
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
Include the header:
.B #include <oyjl.h>
.TP
and compile:
.B cc `pkg-config --cflags --libs oyjl` mycode.c -o myTool
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I Oyjl API
provides a platformindependent C interface for JSON I/O, conversion to and XML + YAML, string helpers, file reading, testing and argument handling.
.SH API DESCRIPTION
A html documentation should come with your installation. Try otherwise
.sp
https://codedocs.xyz/oyranos-cms/oyranos/group__oyjl.html
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
OYJL_DEBUG
.br
set the Oyjl debug level. Typicaly you can use on command line the -v tools option.
.br
A alternative name my be provided by the oyjlInitLanguageDebug() API.
.br
It influences the internal oyjl_debug integer variable pointer. Its value changes the output level.
.br
Default integer range is from 1-2.
.TP
OYJL_DEBUG_NODE
.br
Allows to trace node changes in the tree API.
.br
  Syntax: "/my/xpath/to/[2]/element"
.br
  A value can be appended after a double point ':' separator like "my/xpath/key:value". The node is printed in case of a match.
.TP
OYJL_NO_EXIT
.br
by default the args parser exits a tool on very grave conditions. This variable switches the behaviour off.
.TP
FORCE_COLORTERM
.br
set ansi color term output always on.
.TP
FORCE_NO_COLORTERM
.br
switch ansi color term output always off.
.TP
LANG and LOCPATH
.br
are typicaly used to detect i18n settings.
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann (ku.b (at) gmx.de)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
oyjl(1) oyjl-args(1)
.SH BUGS
at: https://gitlab.com/oyranos/oyranos/issues
