.TH "oyjl-translate" 1 "January 2, 2020" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
oyjl-translate v1.0.0 \- Oyjl Translation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-e\fR \fB\-k\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\-function-name\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR \fINAME\fR]
.br
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-a\fR \fB\-d\fR \fITEXTDOMAIN1,TEXTDOMAIN2\fR \fB\-k\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIde_DE,es_ES\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fILOCALEDIR\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fITYPE\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-c\fR \fB\-\-locale\fR \fIde_DE\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR \fB\-V\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Convert Oyjl UI JSON to C translatable strings for use with gettext tools and translate a tools UI using the programs own text domain. The resulting Oyjl UI JSON can be used for translated rendering.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS
Set basic parameters
.br
\fB\-i\fR|\fB\-\-input\fR \fIFILENAME\fR	File or Stream
.RS
A file name or a input stream like "stdin".
.RE
\fB\-o\fR|\fB\-\-output\fR \fIFILENAME\fR	File or Stream
.RS
A file name or a output stream like "stdout".
.RE
.SS
Convert JSON/C to gettext ready C strings
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-e\fR \fB\-k\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-f\fR \fIFORMAT\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-\-function-name\fR \fINAME\fR] [\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR \fINAME\fR]
.br
Two input modes are supported. Read Oyjl UI -X=export JSON. Or parse C sources to --function-name defined strings and replace them in --output by --function-name-out. The later is useful for oyjlTranslation_s, Qt style or other translations.
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-e\fR|\fB\-\-extract\fR	Extract translatable Messages
.RS
Convert JSON to gettext ready C strings
.RE
\fB\-f\fR|\fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR	Format string
.RS
A output format string containing a %s for replacement.
.RE
	\fB\-f\fR json		# I18N JSON : Create translation Json with -af=json. - This option is useful only for smaller projects as a initial start.
.br
	\fB\-f\fR i18n(\"%s\");
.br
\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-key-list\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR	Key Name List
.RS
to be used key names in a comma separated list
.RE
\fB\-\-function-name\fR \fINAME\fR	Function Name
.RS
A input function name string. e.g.: "i18n(\""
.RE
	\fB\-\-function-name\fR _(\"
.br
	\fB\-\-function-name\fR i18n(\"
.br
	\fB\-\-function-name\fR QObject::tr(\"
.br
\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR \fINAME\fR	Function Name
.RS
A output funtion name string. e.g.: "_"
.RE
	\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR _(\"
.br
	\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR i18n(\"
.br
	\fB\-\-function-name-out\fR QObject::tr(\"
.br
.SS
Add gettext translated keys to JSON
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-a\fR \fB\-d\fR \fITEXTDOMAIN1,TEXTDOMAIN2\fR \fB\-k\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fIde_DE,es_ES\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fILOCALEDIR\fR] [\fB\-w\fR \fITYPE\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-add\fR	Add Translation
.RS
Add gettext translated keys to JSON
.RE
\fB\-d\fR|\fB\-\-domain\fR \fITEXTDOMAIN1,TEXTDOMAIN2\fR	Text Domain List
.RS
text domain list of your project
.RE
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-locales\fR \fIde_DE,es_ES\fR	Locales List
.RS
locales in a comma separated list
.RE
\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-localedir\fR \fILOCALEDIR\fR	Locale Directory
.RS
locale directory containing the your-locale/LC_MESSAGES/your-textdomain.mo gettext translations
.RE
\fB\-k\fR|\fB\-\-key-list\fR \fIname,description,help...\fR	Key Name List
.RS
to be used key names in a comma separated list
.RE
\fB\-w\fR|\fB\-\-wrap\fR \fITYPE\fR	language specific wrap
.br
	\fB\-w\fR C		# C static char
.br
\fB\-t\fR|\fB\-\-translations-only\fR	Only Translations
.RS
output only translations
.RE
\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-list-empty\fR	List not translated
.RS
list empty translations too
.RE
.SS
Copy keys to JSON
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-c\fR \fB\-\-locale\fR \fIde_DE\fR [\fB\-i\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILENAME\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
Import translations from other formats without gettext. Supported --input=Qt-xml-format.tr
.br
.sp
.br
\fB\-c\fR|\fB\-\-copy\fR	Copy Translations
.RS
Copy translated keys to JSON. Skip gettext.
.RE
\fB\-\-locale\fR \fIde_DE\fR	Single Locale
.br
\fB\-n\fR|\fB\-\-list-empty\fR	List not translated
.RS
list empty translations too
.RE
.SS
General options
\fBoyjl-translate\fR \fB\-h\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR \fB\-X\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR \fB\-V\fR [\fB\-v\fR]
.br
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR\fI[=synopsis|...]\fR	Print help text
.RS
Show usage information and hints for the tool.
.RE
	\fB\-h\fR -		# Full Help : Print help for all groups
.br
	\fB\-h\fR synopsis		# Synopsis : List groups - Show all groups including syntax
.br
\fB\-X\fR|\fB\-\-export\fR \fIjson|json+command|man|markdown\fR	Export formated text
.RS
Get UI converted into text formats
.RE
	\fB\-X\fR man		# Man : Unix Man page - Get a unix man page
.br
	\fB\-X\fR markdown		# Markdown : Formated text - Get formated text
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json		# Json : GUI - Get a Oyjl Json UI declaration
.br
	\fB\-X\fR json+command		# Json + Command : GUI + Command - Get Oyjl Json UI declaration incuding command
.br
	\fB\-X\fR export		# Export : All available data - Get UI data for developers. The format can be converted by the oyjl-args tool.
.br
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR	Version
.br
\fB\-v\fR|\fB\-\-verbose\fR	increase verbosity
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Convert JSON to gettext ready C strings
.br
oyjl-translate -e [-v] -i oyjl-ui.json -o result.json -f '_("%s"); ' -k name,description,help
.TP
Convert C source to I18N JSON
.br
oyjl-translate -e -f=json -i project.c -o result.json
.TP
Add gettext translated keys to JSON
.br
oyjl-translate -a -i oyjl-ui.json -o result.json -k name,description,help -d TEXTDOMAIN -p LOCALEDIR -l de_DE,es_ES
.TP
Copy translated keys to JSON. Skip gettext.
.br
oyjl-translate -c -i lang.tr -o result.json --locale de_DE
.TP
View MAN page
.br
oyjl-translate -X man | groff -T utf8 -man -
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
OUTPUT_CHARSET
.br
Set the GNU gettext output encoding.
.br
Alternatively use the -l=de_DE.UTF-8 option.
.br
Typical value is UTF-8.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
oyjl(1) oyjl-args(1) oyjl-args-qml(1)
.br
https://codedocs.xyz/oyranos-cms/oyranos/group__oyjl.html
.SH AUTHOR
Kai-Uwe Behrmann 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2017-2024 Kai-Uwe Behrmann
.br
License: MIT https://opensource.org/license/mit
.SH BUGS
https://www.gitlab.com/beku/oyjl/issues 

